
==== NAME ====

Posy::Plugin::Toc - Posy plugin create a table of contents.


==== VERSION ====

This describes version ``0.5501'' of Posy::Plugin::Toc.


==== DESCRIPTION ====

Creates a table of contents generated from headings.

The table of contents will be generated if the entry (or page) contains the
toc_entry_split/toc_page_split or the
toc_entry_split_after/toc_page_split_after values, only from headers below
the match, OR, if the the toc_entry_at_start/toc_page_at_start value is
true, in which case the table of contents will be generated from the whole
entry (or page) and placed at the start.

If there are no headers (element $toc_chapter_element), then no table of
contents will be generated.

This creates a 'make_toc' entry-action, which will put a table of contents
in the entry. This should be placed after 'parse_entry' and before
'render_entry' in the entry_action list. If you are using the
Posy::Plugin::ShortBody plugin, this should be placed after 'short_body' in
the entry_action list, not before it.

This also creates a 'make_page_toc' action, which will put a table of
contents in the whole page body. This should be placed before 'render_page'
(so that one can be sure that one has the whole page to process).


==   Configuration   ==

This expects configuration settings in the $self->{config} hash, which, in
the default Posy setup, can be defined in the main "config" file in the
config directory.

Note that one can use different settings for different page types, and even
for different entries, to fine-tune whether or not a Table-of-Contents will
be generated.

``toc_entry_split''
String which will be replaced by the table of contents, in entries.
(default: <!-- toc -->)

``toc_page_split''
String which will be replaced by the table of contents, for the whole page.
(default: <!-- page_toc -->)

``toc_entry_split_after''
If this is defined, then the table of contents will be placed after the
first match of this string when processing entries. This is useful for
putting a ToC after the first <h1> header in a file, for example. This
overrides toc_entry_split if it is defined. Note that if this is true, there
will *always* be a table of contents -- but remember that config files are
very flexible. (default: nothing)

``toc_page_split_after''
If this is defined, then the table of contents will be placed after the
first match of this string in the entire page. This is useful for putting a
ToC after the first <h1> header in a file, for example. This overrides
toc_page_split if it is defined.

Note that if this is true, there will *always* be a table of contents -- but
remember that config files are very flexible.

Be very careful using this, as if one sets both toc_page_split_after and
toc_entry_split_after to the same things, you will get two tables of
contents, with wonky links.

(default: nothing)

``toc_entry_at_start''
If this is true, then the table of contents will be placed at the very start
of the entry-body. This overrides both toc_entry_split and
toc_entry_split_after. (default: off)

``toc_page_at_start''
If this is true, then the table of contents will be placed at the very start
of the page-body. This overrides both toc_page_split and
toc_page_split_after. (default: off)

``toc_entry_chapter_element''
Which element marks the header of the "chapters" in entries? (default: h3)

``toc_page_chapter_element''
Which element marks the header of the "chapters" in pages? (default: h2)

``toc_chapter_prefix''
This will prefix the chapters' headers.

``toc_anchor''
Contents of the anchor of chapters prefix.

``toc_prefix''
Prefix of the table of contents. (default: <h3>Table of Contents</h3><ul
class="PageTOC">)

``toc_line_prefix''
Prefix of the line for each chapter will be inserted into the TOC (default:
<li>)

``toc_line_suffix''
Suffix of the line for each chapter will be inserted into the TOC (default:
</li>)

``toc_suffix''
Suffix of the table of contents. (default: </ul>)

``toc_numbered''
Turn this off to disable numbers in the table of contents. (default: on)


==== INSTALLATION ====

Installation needs will vary depending on the particular setup a person has.


==   Administrator, Automatic   ==

If you are the administrator of the system, then the dead simple method of
installing the modules is to use the CPAN or CPANPLUS system.

    cpanp -i Posy::Plugin::Toc

This will install this plugin in the usual places where modules get
installed when one is using CPAN(PLUS).


==   Administrator, By Hand   ==

If you are the administrator of the system, but don't wish to use the
CPAN(PLUS) method, then this is for you. Take the *.tar.gz file and untar it
in a suitable directory.

To install this module, run the following commands:

    perl Build.PL
    ./Build
    ./Build test
    ./Build install

Or, if you're on a platform (like DOS or Windows) that doesn't like the "./"
notation, you can do this:

   perl Build.PL
   perl Build
   perl Build test
   perl Build install


==   User With Shell Access   ==

If you are a user on a system, and don't have root/administrator access, you
need to install Posy somewhere other than the default place (since you don't
have access to it). However, if you have shell access to the system, then
you can install it in your home directory.

Say your home directory is "/home/fred", and you want to install the modules
into a subdirectory called "perl".

Download the *.tar.gz file and untar it in a suitable directory.

    perl Build.PL --install_base /home/fred/perl
    ./Build
    ./Build test
    ./Build install

This will install the files underneath /home/fred/perl.

You will then need to make sure that you alter the PERL5LIB variable to find
the modules, and the PATH variable to find the scripts (posy_one,
posy_static).

Therefore you will need to change: your path, to include
/home/fred/perl/script (where the script will be)

        PATH=/home/fred/perl/script:${PATH}

the PERL5LIB variable to add /home/fred/perl/lib

        PERL5LIB=/home/fred/perl/lib:${PERL5LIB}


==== REQUIRES ====

    Posy
    Posy::Core

    Test::More


==== AUTHOR ====

    Kathryn Andersen (RUBYKAT)
    perlkat AT katspace dot com
    http://www.katspace.com


==== COPYRIGHT AND LICENCE ====

Copyright (c) 2004-2005 by Kathryn Andersen

Based on the blosxom 'toc' plugin by Gregor Rayman (copyright 2003) <rayman
<at> grayman <dot> de>

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to
deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the
rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS
IN THE SOFTWARE.

